OBSDOCS-2937: Document Grafana datasource integration (#110826)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/distr-tracing-tempo-grafana.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * configuring/distr-tracing-tempo-configuring.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="distr-tracing-tempo-grafana_{context}"]
= Grafana DataSource Integration

[role="_abstract"]

> When you enable the gateway, it uses the {ocp-product-title} authentication and authorization mechanisms, allowing you to query different tenants. This prevents direct configuration of the datasource from communicating with the {dt}, requiring an authentication method for the gateway.

Author: @rubenvp8510, I don't understand this phrase:
`direct configuration of the datasource from communicating with the {dt}`
Could you please clarify or suggest an edit?

Author: WDYT?
```suggestion
When you enable the gateway, it uses {ocp-product-title} authentication and authorization mechanisms, which allows you to query different tenants. Because the gateway intercepts communication between the data source and the {dt}, you must configure an authentication method for the gateway rather than configuring the data source directly.
```

Author: Fixed in collaboration with Claude Code.

[TIP]
====

> If you are unable to directly integrate Grafana with {ocp-product-title} authentication due to architectural constraints or operational limitations, such as when using an external Grafana instance, you can use the following alternative authentication mechanism, which involves using a `ServiceAccount` token, configured with an extended lifespan, to facilitate gateway authentication. All users authenticated through this Grafana mechanism share the same access privileges. This shared access model limits the granularity of access control, preventing the implementation of highly detailed, user-specific permissions. If your organizations requires robust, fine-grained access management, you might find this approach less suitable.

Author: @rubenvp8510, could you please review this carefully?

Reviewer: This is good
